Glossary
********

Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC)
==========================================================

The `Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC)
<https://cpicpgx.org/>`__ is an international consortium whose primary goal
is to facilitate use of PGx tests for patient care by creating, curating, and
posting freely available, peer-reviewed, evidence-based, updatable, and
detailed gene/drug clinical practice guidelines.

Canadian Pharmacogenomics Network for Drug Safety (CPNDS)
=========================================================

The `Canadian Pharmacogenomics Network for Drug Safety (CPNDS)
<http://cpnds.ubc.ca/>`__ is a multicenter active surveillance and
pharmacogenomics consortium. It was founded in 2004 with the goal to uncover
the genetic and mechanistic basis of drug response phenotypes and develop
clinical pharmacogenetic implementation tools to improve the safety and
efficacy of medications used in children and adults. It is a
multidisciplinary team of scientists and practicing physicians from across
Canada and around the world.

Dutch Pharmacogenetics Working Group (DPWG)
===========================================

The `Dutch Pharmacogenetics Working Group (DPWG) <https://www.knmp.nl/
producten/gebruiksrecht-g-standaard/informatie-over-de-g-standaard/
the-g-standaard-the-medicines-standard-in-healthcare>`__ was established in
2005 by the Royal Dutch Pharmacist's Association. The DPWG is
multidisciplinary and includes clinical pharmacists, physicians, clinical
pharmacologists, clinical chemists, epidemiologists, and toxicologists.

Pharmacogenomics (PGx)
======================

According to this PharmGKB `post <https://www.pharmgkb.org/page/faqs#what-
is-the-difference-between-pharmacogenetics-and-pharmacogenomics>`__:

  In general pharmacogenetics usually refers to how variation in one single
  gene influences the response to a single drug. Pharmacogenomics is a
  broader term, which studies how all of the genes (the genome) can
  influence responses to drugs. However, these terms are often used
  interchangeably.

Pharmacogenomics Knowledge Base (PharmGKB)
==========================================

The `Pharmacogenomics Knowledge Base (PharmGKB)
<https://www.pharmgkb.org/>`__ is a publicly available, online knowledge base
responsible for the aggregation, curation, integration and dissemination of
knowledge regarding the impact of human genetic variation on drug response.
PharmGKB annotates PGx-based drug dosing guidelines published by CPIC, DPWG,
CPNDS, and other professional societies. PharmGKB annotations present a brief
summary of the genotype-based dosing recommendations and links to the source
publications/documents.
